h2. node-chat-in-steps

"node-chat":http://chat.nodejs.org is a good working example of the power of "nodejs":http://nodejs.org/ . However some people have trouble getting started with the "source code":http://github.com/ry/node_chat of node-chat application. In order to help to you get started I have developed the skeleton of application in 12 different steps.

The step1 is "as simple as this":http://github.com/neerajdotname/node-chat-in-steps/raw/step1/server.js .

h2. Installing nodejs

I developed this application with node version 0.1.32 . Installing node is easy.

<pre>
git clone git://github.com/ry/node.git 
cd node 
git checkout v0.1.32 
./configure 
make 
make install 
</pre>


h2. Checking out source code

All the 12 steps are tagged with step1 to step12. This is how you can get code for tag step1.

<pre>
git clone git://github.com/neeradotname/node-chat-in-steps.git 
cd node-chat-in-steps
git checkout step1
</pre>

h2. Starting server and visiting page

<pre>
node server.js
</pre>

After the server has been started visit "http://localhost:8002":http://localhost:8002 .


h2. Functionalities in different steps

h3. step1

* create a server that responds with hello world on port 8002

h3. step2

* create an index.html and serve it

h3. step3

* introduce util.js
* change the logic so that any static file is served
* show 404 in case no file is found

h3. step4

* add jquery-1.4.2.js
* add client.js
* change index.html to prompt user for nickname

h3. step5

* send a join request when user enters nick name
* respond with a JSON in reply to /join request

h3. step6

* after ther nick name is accepted display chat screen

h3. step7

* create session object which identifies if a person is already in
* send this session object back to client when a person joins in
* if the nick is in use the provide that feedback to user

h3. step8

* add style.css

h3. step9

* after logging in display current time

h3. step10

* display number of active users logging in
* after showing the toolbar send a request /who
* capture the number of active users

h3. step11

* display message that user joined after a user joins chat

h3. step12

* better timestamp while displaying message

h3. step13

* when user hits enter then invoke send function

